Lesson Plan 06, ISTA-420
Chapter 3, T-SQL Fundamentals
August 15, 2017


1. In your own words, what is a subquery?
   A query inside another query.

2. In your own words, what is a self contained subquery?
   Is self dependant from another query.

3. In your own words, what is a correlated subquery?
   Depends on tables within other queries.

4. Give an example of a subquery that returns a single value. When would you use this kind of subquery?
   "select order id from sales.order avg"
  
  When you only want one result.
(Recieved Help From Xavier)
5. Give an example of a subquery that returns multiple values. When would you use this kind of subquery?
   `select firstname + ' ' + lastname + ' had no sales in May, 2016.' 
   from hr.Employees
   where empid NOT IN
   (select empidfrom sales.orders where orderdate like '2017-06%');`
   "To filter results."
(Recieved Help From Xavier)
6. Give an example of a subquery that returns table values. When would you use this kind of subquery?
   select OrderYear, count(distinct custid) as NumCust
   from (select year(orderdate) as OrderYear, custid
   from sales.orders) as x
   group by OrderYear;
(Recieved Help From Xavier)
7. What does the exists predicate do? Give an example.
 -  select firstname + ' ' + lastname + ' had sales in May, 2016.' as award
  from hr.Employees e
  where exists
  (select empid
  from sales.orders o
  where e.empid=o.empid
  and orderdate like '2016-05%');
  
  Filters out ones that do not have the indicated value.
(Recieved Help From Xavier)
8. What happens if we use the not operator before a predicate? Give an example.
   select firstname + ' ' + lastname + ' had no sales in May, 2016.' as counsel
  from hr.Employees e
  where not exists
  (select empid
  from sales.orders o
  where e.empid=o.empid
  and orderdate like '2016-05%');
  
  It does the exact opposite of just having exists.
(Recieved Help From Xavier)
9. When you use _exists_ or not exists with respect to a row in a database, dois
   it return two or three values? Explain your anser.
   Two. It is either true or false.
(Recieved Help From Xavier)
10. How would you write a subquery to calculate aggregates? For example, you want to 
    calculate yearly sales of a product, and you also want to keep a running sum of total sales. 
    Explain how you would use a subquery to do this.
    
  select orderyear as Year, qty as Sales,
  (select sum(view2.qty)
  from Sales.OrderTotalsByYear as view2
  where view2.orderyear <= view1.orderyear) as RunningSales
  from Sales.OrderTotalsByYear as view1
  order by orderyear;
  
  Query one to display the yearly sales for each year and a second for the sum of total sales.
