Lesson Plan 11, ISTA-420
Chapter 7, T-SQL Fundamentals
August 23, 2017
1 Class Discussion

Pages: 213 — 230, chapter 7. Pivot tables. Wide data and long data. Tables and crosstabs. 

Categorical and quantitative data.


1. What is a window function?
   A window function is a function that, for each row, computes a scalar result value based on a 
   calculation against a subset of the rows from the underlying query. 

2. What does PARTITION do?
   restricts the window to the subset of rows that have the same values in the 
   partitioning columns as in the current row. 

3. What does ORDER BY do?
    defines ordering, but don’t confuse this with  presentation ordering. In a window aggregate 
function, window ordering supports a frame specification. 

4. What does ROWS BETWEEN do?
    filters a frame, or a subset, of rows from the window partition between the two specified delimiters. 

5. What is a ranking window function? Why would you use it? Give an example.
  The ROW_NUMBER function assigns incremental sequential integers to the rows in the query result based 
  on the mandatory window ordering. In the sample query, the ordering is based on the val column;
  therefore, you can see in the output that when the value increases, the row number increases as well.
 
6. What is an offset window function? Why would you use it? Give an example.
   Return an element from a row that is at a certain offset from the current row or at the beginning 
   or end of a window frame. 

7. What do LEAD and LAG DO
   The LAG and LEAD functions support window partitions and window order clauses. There’s no relevance to 
   window framing here. You use these functions to obtain an element from a row that is at a certain
   offset from the current row within the partition, based on the indicated ordering. 

8. What do FIRST VALUE and LAST VALUE do?
   Returns an element from the first and last rows in the window frame, respectively. 

9. What is an aggragate window function? Why would you use it? Give an example.
    They support window-partition, window-order, and window-frame clauses. 

10. What is a pivot table and what does it do?
    Is rotating data from a state of rows to a state of columns, possibly 
    aggregating values along the way. 